.TH vim-registry 5 "January 2010" "Debian Project" "vim addons"
.SH NAME
vim\-registry \- syntax for vim\-addons registry files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I PACKAGE\-NAME.yaml
.SH DESCRIPTION
A registry file is a multi-document YAML file (i.e. it can be composed by
several different YAML documents separated by \*(lq\-\-\-\*(rq lines). Each YAML
document represents a registry entry, that is the information describing a
single addon.

Ideally, the registry directory contains one file per package shipping addons;
with a filename obeying to the convention
.IR PACKAGE\-NAME.yaml .
Hence a single package can contribute to the registry with multiple
entries described in a single YAML file.

For example, the \*(lqvim-scripts\*(rq package should ship a single
.I /usr/share/vim/registry/vim-scripts.yaml
file, containing one YAML document per shipped addon. The first lines of such
file can look like the following:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
addon: alternate
description: "alternate pairing files (e.g. .c/.h) with short ex\-commands"
basedir: \fI/usr/share/vim\-scripts/\fR
disabledby: "let loaded_alternateFile = 1"
files:
  \- \fIplugin/a.vim\fR
  \- \fIdoc/alternate.txt\fR
\-\-\-
addon: whatdomain
description: "query the meaning of a Top Level Domain"
basedir: \fI/usr/share/vim-scripts/\fR
disabledby: "let loaded_whatdomain = 1"
files:
  \- \fIplugin/whatdomain.vim\fR
\-\-\-
.EE
.RE
.PP
Each registry entry may contain the following fields, to be typeset according to
the YAML specification:
.TP
addon (Required)
Name of the addon.
.TP
description (Required)
Human understandable textual description of the addon.
.TP
files (Required)
List of the files which compose the addon and are required to be present in a
component of the Vim runtime path for the addon to be enabled.  Each file is
specified relative to a component of the Vim runtime path.
.TP
basedir (Optional)
Directory where the files shipped by the addon (i.e., where the symlinks of
the user/sysadm should point to) reside on the filesystem.  Default is
.IR /usr/share/vim/addons .
.TP
disabledby (Optional)
Vim script command that can be used (usually by adding it to \fI~/.vimrc\fR)
to prevent the addon from being used even when it is installed.  The intended
usage of this field is to \*(lqblacklist\*(rq an undesired addon whose files
are available, and hence automatically loaded by Vim, in a component of the
Vim runtime path.
.SH AUTHOR
James Vega <jamessan@debian.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vim\-addons (1),
.UR http://www.yaml.org/
YAML specification
.UE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2010 James Vega
.PP
This program is free software, you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.
